+++
title = "A note on the forecast performance of temporal aggregation"
date = "2014-09-01T00:00:00"

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Rostami-Tabar Bahman", "Babai M. Zied", "Syntetos Aris","Ducq Yves"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "In *Naval Research Logistics*"
#publication_short = "In *NRL*"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "Earlier research on the effects of nonoverlapping temporal aggregation on demand forecasting showed the benefits associated with such an approach under a stationary AR(1) or MA(1) processes for decision making conducted at the disaggregate level. The first objective of this note is to extend those important results by considering a more general underlying demand process. The second objective is to assess the conditions under which aggregation may be a preferable approach for improving decision making at the aggregate level as well. We confirm the validity of previous results under more general conditions, and we show the increased benefit resulting from forecasting by temporal aggregation at lower frequency time units. "

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
#image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#projects = ["example-external-project"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "http://orca.cf.ac.uk/66013/1/Rostami%20Tabar%20et%20al%20%282014%20-%20NRL%29.pdf"
#url_preprint = "http://eprints.soton.ac.uk/352095/1/Cushen-IMV2013.pdf"
# url_code = "#"
# url_dataset = "#"
# url_project = "#"
# url_slides = "#"
# url_video = "#"
# url_poster = "#"
# url_source = "#"
# url_source = "#"

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
url_custom = [{name = "DOI", url = "https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1002/nav.21598"}]

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
#highlight = true

# Featured image
# # Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
# [header]
# image = "headers/bubbles-wide.jpg"
# caption = "My caption :smile:"

+++

More detail can easily be written here using *Markdown* and $\rm \LaTeX$ math code.
