+++
title = "Demand forecasting by temporal aggregation"
date = "2013-09-01T00:00:00"

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Rostami-Tabar Bahman", "Zielb Florian"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["3"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "Working paper"
publication_short = "In *WP*"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "The Emergency Department (ED) allows patients to access a nonstop ur- gent medical services in the health service. A poor service delivery can often have a negative impact on the entire health service. It may put patient’s life in risk and increase patient waiting time. It also increases pressure on ED seeking external resources which will consequently in- crease cost and cause staff sickness due to workload pressure. Moreover, it increases pressure on other health services such as Ambulance services and social care. A poor service delivery is often the outcome of a reactive strategy to a chaining demand in the ED planning system. An accurate forecast of ED attendance can be used as a planning aid towards a proac- tive strategy to improve the quality of service. This has now became a priority in the EDs of the National Health Service (NHS), UK. Among factors that may impact the ED attendance, special events such as public holidays and festive days play an important role. In this paper, we pro- pose a forecasting model that outperforms benchmarks by incorporating the impact of special events and their cumulative effect."

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
#image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = true

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#projects = ["example-external-project"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "http://orca.cf.ac.uk/66013/1/Rostami%20Tabar%20et%20al%20%282014%20-%20NRL%29.pdf"
#url_preprint = "http://eprints.soton.ac.uk/352095/1/Cushen-IMV2013.pdf"
# url_code = "#"
# url_dataset = "#"
# url_project = "#"
# url_slides = "#"
# url_video = "#"
# url_poster = "#"
# url_source = "#"
# url_source = "#"

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
url_custom = [{name = "DOI", url = "https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1002/nav.21546"}]

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
#highlight = true

# Featured image
# # Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
# [header]
# image = "headers/bubbles-wide.jpg"
# caption = "My caption :smile:"

+++

More detail can easily be written here using *Markdown* and $\rm \LaTeX$ math code.
